Update docs contributor guidelines (#1193)
knative/docs: contributing/DOCS-CONTRIBUTING.md

Note that code issues should be filed against the
[individual Knative repositories](http://github.com/knative), while
documentation issues should go in the
[`knative/docs`repo](https://github.com/knative/docs/issues). If the issue is

> specific to the [Knative.dev](https://www.knative.dev) website, open the issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specific to the [https://knative.dev](https://knative.dev) website, open the issue
```

There are a couple different ways to jump in to the Knative doc set:

- Look for a
  [Good First Issue](https://github.com/knative/docs/labels/kind%2Fgood-first-issue)
  in the backlog.

- Try out Knative and send us feedback. For example, run through one of the
  [install guides](../install/README.md) and then try
  [Getting Started with Knative Serving](../install/getting-started-knative-app.md).

    You should keep a
    [friction log](https://devrel.net/developer-experience/an-introduction-to-friction-logging)
    of your experience and then use that to open your first set of PRs.
    Examples:

   - What was hard for you?
   - Did you stumble on something because it wasn't clear?
   - Was a dependency not mentioned?

**A few pointers and other considerations**

>   - Think about how you can improve the documentation as a whole. <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Think about how you can improve the documentation as a whole.
```

Author: the spacing is wrong in the website, thus the manual line break. this does not render in github nor the website. so leaving this in unless you feel strongly about removing it

Reviewer: huh. I'd like to not have random bits of HTML in the docs. Can we take it out and then open an issue in the website repo about the rendering problem, if it persists? Maybe it was a quirk that'll go away?

Author: no quirk its a markdown renderer thing that wont go away unless we use all hmtl. it should be obvious to those familiar with markdown and html. an issue against the website repo wont fix the weird whitespace or lack of it

    For example, how can you fix the issue you found so that others don't run
    into the same challenges?

  - Are there multiple places that could be fixed?

     - Are there other pages that you should apply your update?

     - Would it help if there was a link to more or related information on a
       the page? On a related page?

  - Was the title or description misleading? Did you expect to find something
    else?

>   - If you find something and dont have the bandwidth to open an actual PR, help

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If you find something and don't have the bandwidth to open a PR,
```

>     make us aware of the pain point and open an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    make us aware of the pain point and open an
```

Author: something odds going on here, nothing shows as changed, marking this resolved

>     [Issue](https://github.com/knative/docs/issues/new).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [issue](https://github.com/knative/docs/issues/new).
```

Author: was going for "Issue" proper, thus the capital I but i think this reads the same either way.

### Submitting documentation PRs - what to expect

Here's what generally happens when you open a PR against the `knative/docs` repo:

> 1. One of the assigned repo maintainers will triage the PR by assigning relative

Reviewer: I don't think we need to assign a priority to PRs. Priority makes more sense in the context of issues.

Author: Priorities make sense in the context of PRs opened against past releases. Instead of simply not touching them, labelling them clearly as a low priority item will help both the author and any new contributors understand why its sitting. I think its safer to have these items in the guideline vs not. But as you point out, in many cases its not necessary to assign a priority level.

   priority, adding appropriate labels, and performing an initial documentation
   review.
1. If the PR involves significant technical changes, for example new features,
   or new and changed sample code, the PR is assigned to a Subject Matter

>    Expert (SME) or engineer for technical review and approval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Expert (SME), typically an engineer working on Knative, for technical review and approval.
```

1. When both the technical writers and SMEs are satisfied with the quality
   of the writing and the technical accuracy of the content, the PR can be

>    merged. A PR requires two labels before for it's eligible for merging:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   merged. A PR requires two labels before it can merge:
```

Reviewer: @RichieEscarez  my main issue here is "before for"

Author: i clicked merge commit (sorry working from mobile hotspot)

   `lgtm` and `approved`.

>    * The SME is responsible for reviewing the technical accuracy and is who

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The SME is responsible for reviewing the technical accuracy and adding
```

>      can provide the `lgtm`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     the `lgtm` label.
```

>    * The Knative technical writers generally use the publicly available

Reviewer: Two thoughts here:

- The info about us using the style guide feels out of place in this area of the doc, which is focused on how to get the right labels for a PR to merge

- We should probably refer to "The Knative Docs repo approvers", and then link to https://github.com/knative/docs/blob/master/OWNERS_ALIASES#L9 so it's clear who we're referring to.

Author: i added this for a couple of reasons, i think it is in context of how to achieve the approved label, and we also dont have another doc where this info is covered. if we have new contributors reference this guide for how to get a PR merged, it should be thorough.

     [Google Style Guide](https://developers.google.com/style/) and are who
     provide the `approved` label when the content meets quality, clarity, and
     organization standards.

> Ultimately, we want your assistance so open the PR, and we, the Knative team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We appreciate contributions to the docs, so if you open a PR we
```

> will help you get it merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will help you get it merged. You can also post in the `#docs` Slack channel to get input on your ideas before creating a PR.
```

### Putting your docs in the right place

There are currently two general types of Knative docs, either contributor
related content, or external-facing user content.

#### Choosing the correct repo

Depending on the type of content that you want to contribute, it might belong in
one of the Knative code repositories (`knative/serving`, `knative/eventing`,
etc.) or in `knative/docs`, the Knative documentation repo.

> * **Contributor focused content**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Contributor-focused content**
```

  * *Documentation*: Includes content that is component specific and relevant
    only to contributors of a given component. Contributor focused
    documentation is located in the corresponding `docs` folder of that
    component's repository. For example, if you contribute code to
    the Knative Serving component, you might need to add contributor focused
    information into the `docs` folder of the
    [knative/serving repo](https://github.com/knative/serving/tree/master/docs/).

  * *Code samples*: Includes contributor related code or samples. Code or samples
    that are contributor focused also belong in their corresponding
    component's repo. For example, Eventing specific test code is located in the
    [knative/eventing tests](https://github.com/knative/eventing/tree/master/test)
    folder.

> * **User focused content**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **User-focused content**
```

>   * *Documentation*: Includes all content for users of Knative. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * *Documentation*: Includes all content for Knative users. The
```

    external-facing user documentation belongs in the
    [`knative/docs` repo](https://github.com/knative/docs). All content in

>     `knative/docs` is published to [www.knative.dev](https://www.knative.dev).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `knative/docs` is published to [https://knative.dev](https://knative.dev).
```

>   * *Code samples*: Includes user facing code samples and their accompanying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * *Code samples*: Includes user-facing code samples and their accompanying
```

    step-by-step instructions. User code samples are currently separated into

>     two different locations within the `knative/docs` repo. See the following

Reviewer: "the following section" should be changed to the name of that section, so we're not making spacial references.

Author: I wanted to avoid duplicating that text since its one line away but no strong preference either way

    section for details about determining where you can add your code sample.

> ##### Determining where to add user focused code samples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Where to put user-focused code samples
```

Author: per my comment above, am aligning the reference with this title, plus task based titles and headings should use gerunds

> There are currently two categories of user focused code samples, either (1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are currently two categories of user-focused code samples,
```

> *Knative owned and maintained*, or (2) *Community owned and maintained*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Knative owned and maintained* and *Community owned and maintained*.
```

  * **Knative owned and maintained**: Includes code samples that are actively

>     maintained and e2e tested. With currency, clarity, and resource in mind,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    maintained and e2e tested.
```

Author: I added this so that others can relate. With these core reasons in mind, others might understand other factors outside of the listed requirements. Trying to understand why make these points?

Reviewer: The word "currency" is a little confusing in this context (makes me think of money, not recency/immediacy, etc.), and then "resource in mind" also sees off. (I think it would need to be "resources," not resource). Overall, I just thought it wasn't necessary.

Author: revised, ptal

>     only the code samples that meet the following requirements are located in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Only the code samples that meet the following requirements are located in
```

>     the `docs/[*component*]/samples` folders of the `knative/docs` repo:

Reviewer 2: remove `*` for consistency or add to line 192

Author: done

    * *Actively maintained* - The code sample has an active Knative team member
      who has committed to regular maintenance of that content and ensures that

>       the code is current and working for every product release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      the code is updated and working for every product release.
```

    * *Receives regular traffic* - To avoid hosting and maintaining unused
      or stale content, if code samples are not being viewed and fail to
      receive attention or use, those samples will be moved into the

>       "community maintained" set of samples.

Reviewer 2: "community maintained" we could link to the community folder?

Author: done

    * *Passes e2e testing* - All code samples within `docs/[component]/samples`
      folders must align with (and pass) the
      [`e2e` tests](https://github.com/knative/docs/tree/master/test).

    Depending on the Knative component covered by the code sample that you
    want to contribute, your PR should add that sample in one of the following
    folders:

    * Build samples: [`/docs/build/samples`](https://github.com/knative/docs/tree/master/docs/build/samples)
    * Eventing samples: [`/docs/eventing/samples`](https://github.com/knative/docs/tree/master/docs/eventing/samples)
    * Serving samples: [`/docs/serving/samples`](https://github.com/knative/docs/tree/master/docs/serving/samples)

>     Important: If these samples become outdated, receive no traffic, or lack

Reviewer: This feels repetitive, since it's spelled out so clearly above.

Author: i forgot this was here

    an active maintainer, they will be moved into the "community samples"
    folder.

  * **Community owned and maintained samples**: Code samples that have
  been contributed by Knative community members. These samples might not receive
  regular maintenance. It is possible that a sample is no longer current and
  is not actively maintained by its original author. While we encourage a
  contributor to maintain their content, we acknowledge that it's not always
  possible for certain reasons, for example other commitments and time
  constraints.

   While a sample might be out of date, it could still provide assistance and
   help you get up-and-running with certain use-cases. If you find that

>    something is not right, contains out-dated info, please help us become aware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   something is not right or contains outdated info, open an
```

>    of the issue. In which case that sample might be fix if bandwidth or resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   issue. The sample might be fixed if bandwidth or resources
```

Author: ive revised and added your suggestions

>    exists, or taken down and archived into a past release branch (where it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   exists, or taken down and archived into the last release branch where it worked.
```

>    hopefully worked last).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

#### Choosing the correct branch

  It is likely that your docs contribution is either for new or changed
  features in the product, or for a fix or update existing content.

  * **New or changed features**:
    If you are adding or updating documentation for a new or changed feature,
    you likely want to open your PR against the `master` branch. All pre-release
    content for active Knative development belongs in
    [`master`](https://github.com/knative/docs/tree/master/).

  * **Fixes and updates**:
    If you find an issue in a past release, for example a typo or out-of-date
    content, you likely need to open multiple and subsequent PRs. If not a
    followup PR, at least add the "`cherrypick` labels" to your original PR
    to indicate in which of the past release that your change affects.

     For example, if you find a typo in a page of the `v0.5` release, then that
     page in the `master` branch likely also has that typo.

     To fix the typo:

>      1. You open a PR against

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     1. Open a PR against the
```

>         [`master`](https://github.com/knative/docs/tree/master/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        [`master`](https://github.com/knative/docs/tree/master/) branch.
```

     1. Add one or more `cherrypick-#.#` labels to that PR to indicate which

>         of the past release branches should also be fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        of the past release branches should also be fixed. Generally, we only maintain the most recent numbered release.
```

     1. If you want to complete the fix yourself (best practice), you then open

>         a subsequent PR by running `git cherry-pick [OriginalPRCommit#]` against

Reviewer: I don't know if the "Original PR commit" reference here makes sense; I wait until the PR is merged and then grab the squashed commit number that shows at the bottom. For example: https://github.com/knative/docs/pull/1143 shows `3f8fbb2`

Author: ive used the language from the template, ptal

        the [release-0.5](https://github.com/knative/docs/tree/release-0.5).

>         Optionally (and depending on workload and available bandwidth), one of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Depending on workload and available bandwidth, one of
```

        the Knative team members might be able to help handle the

>         `git cherry-pick` in order to push that same fix into a affected release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        `git cherry-pick` in order to push the fix into the affected release
```

        branch(es).

  For a list of the available branches in the `knative/docs` repo, see
  [Documentation Releases](https://github.com/knative/docs/blob/master/doc-releases.md).

> ## Assigning reviewers

Reviewer: (Sorry, this comment was left as "pending" and didn't get batched in with my first review somehow...)

> ## Assigning reviewers

Author: yes i agree, will add this too

> ## Assigning reviewers

Author: done ptal

> For both documentation and code samples, you should assign your PR to a single

Reviewer: Right now, Prow automatically assigns two reviewers from the list of docs approvers and reviewers: https://github.com/knative/docs/blob/master/OWNERS_ALIASES

Author: Prow is nice and mostly reliable but the goal here is to address the lack of SME eyes on certain items, particularly code sample related items. Instead of maintainers manually assigning items (especially when they are from peers) it would expedite a review if the author assigned a reviewer immediately.

Reviewer: Oh, my point was that you said explicitly to only assign it to one assign, and I was just pointing out that Prow automatically assigns two, so a person could see the auto-assignments as be like, "Oops, I need it to only be assigned to one person."

But also there's some restrictions on who is able to assign issues/PRs -- I *think* you have to be a member of the Knative org, so some contributors (esp. first timers) might not be able to assign anyone themselves.

Author: ah, good point. others can use `/assign` flag with prow, will add that

Author: done ptal

> owner. Its best to assign your PR to an owner rather than leaving it unassigned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
owner. It's best to assign your PR to an owner rather than leaving it unassigned.
```

For code samples, initially assign your PR to the SME who should review
for technical accuracy. If you don't know who the appropriate owner/reviewer of
your PR should be, you can assign it to the

> [current Work Group lead](./WORKING-GROUPS.md) of the related component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[current working group lead](./WORKING-GROUPS.md) of the related component.
```
